In this video, we're going to
edit our Sightings data layer so
that we can add a new sighting
point.
To edit a data layer you want to
click on the layer in your
contents and then go into the
Edit tab and look in the
Features section.
So in this section we have the
Create button which lets us add
new features to our layers, so
new points, lines or polygons.
The Modify button lets us change
the existing features, so move
points or reshape polygons or
rotate lines for example.
And the Delete button allows us
to delete features, so we could
delete one of our sighting
points if we wanted to. But we
want to create a new sighting,
so we're going to click on the
Create button which will bring
up this Create Features pane.
So we can just shut the catalog
pane and we'll click on where we
can see the point symbol for our
sighting environment points.
And now we have some buttons
here for different options of
adding points.
We just want to click on the
first button which is create a
points feature and then we want
to click on the blue arrow
that's to the right of our layer
name.
This is going to let us add in
the information for our data
point that we're going to add
onto our map, so it'll bring up
this window where we have the
different columns in our
sightings data.
So let's add in the attributes
that we know so the date is the
same as for the other nest
sighting in the secondary forest
in Wonegizi and that was on the
25th of November 2022.
So we can click on the calendar
button and click on the top to
change the date 2022 and then
choose November and click on the
25th.
As we're going to add the point
to the map.
We don't know what to put in the
longitude and latitude yet so
we're going to leave that empty.
But for sighting we can put in
nest and for environment we can
put in secondary forest.
And now if we bring our mouse
onto the map we can see that we
have a tool to drop a sighting
point where we want.
So we're going to drop it in the
same place as the other nest
sighting in Wonegizi as this is
where our missing data is.
So drop that in and if you put
it in the slightly wrong place
like I have, you can go into the
tools, click the move tool and
once the point is selected and
it's highlighted yellow, you can
drag it to move it where you
want and then click on this
green tick finish button to
finish the move.
And once you're happy with where
your point is, you can click the
Save Edits button which is up in
the Edit tab here and click Yes.
So now let's open our attribute
table to see our new sighting
point.
So we still have the definition
query on our data.
So we've only got 7 rows in our
table, but we can see at the
bottom we've got the new row
that we've just added.
But even though we've plotted
this point, we still don't have
the the longitude and the
latitude.
We need to calculate this
manually, so to do that we can
click on the column heading for
longitude, right click and click
calculate geometry and we've got
the rows selected that we want
to calculate geometry for in our
tables.
So we're only going to be doing
it on that row.
And in the input features we
want it to be our sighting
environment points, which should
already be in there.
And then for field that's going
to be our longitude.
And for property we want to
click X coordinate as we go
along the corridor and up the
stairs.
The coordinate format can be the
same as our input data and the
coordinate system.
We want it to be the same as our
sighting points.
So we'll click on this and then
we'll click OK and now we can
see the calculated longitude for
that row.
So we'll just do the same for
the latitude column as well.
Click on it, right click,
calculate geometry.
The input features are our
sighting points, The field is
latitude this time and the
property is point Y coordinate
and then the coordinate format
is same as our input and the
coordinate system is for our
sighting points.
So just click OK and that's how
to edit a data layer in Arcgis
Pro.
Just remember to hit save now to
save our changes.